These are sample files illustrating the use of the glossaries
package. If you are new to this package, start with minimalgls.tex
to check you have glossaries correctly installed and to check that
you understand how to use it.

1. Run minimalgls.tex through LaTeX ("compile the document") either
by typing

	latex minimalgls

in a terminal or by using the relevant button or menu item in your
text editor or front-end. This will create the required associated
files but you will not see the glossary. If you use PDFLaTeX you
will also get warnings about non-existent references that look
something like:

pdfTeX warning (dest): name{glo:aca} has been referenced but does
not exist, 
replaced by a fixed one

These warnings may be ignored on the first run.

If you get a "Missing \begin{document}" error, then it's most likely
that your version of xkeyval.sty is out of date. Check the log file
for a warning of that nature. If this is the case, please update
your TeX distribution.

2. Run makeglossaries on the document. This can be done on a
terminal either by typing

	makeglossaries minimalgls

or by typing

	perl makeglossaries minimalgls

If you don't have Perl installed you will need to run makeindex
directly:

	makeindex -s minimalgls.ist -t minimalgls.glg -o minimalgls.gls minimalgls.glo

Another alternative is to use the Java application makeglossariesgui
(http://ctan.org/pkg/makeglossariesgui) which has diagnostic tools
to help determine what has gone wrong if there's a problem.

3. Repeat step 1. Your document minimalgls.pdf should now have a
glossary.

If the above seems complicated, you can automate the process using
tools such as latexmk or arara. See
http://www.dickimaw-books.com/latex/thesis/html/build.html for
further details.
